# Exercise 5

In this exercise, we will apply all the things we have learned to add a form to create new posts on our list.

To do this, we will learn two more components:

- [TextInput](https://reactnative.dev/docs/textinput), allows the user to enter text. It has an `onChangeText` prop that takes a function to handle the change event, a `value` prop to set the current value of the input, and a `placeholder` prop to set the input's placeholder to show while it's empty.

  > Note: To know more about how to handle text inputs, check the [documentation.](https://reactnative.dev/docs/handling-text-input)

- [Button](https://reactnative.dev/docs/button), to render a touchable element. This component receives an `onPress` prop to handle the `press` event and the `title` prop to render the component's text.

To create data in `Firestore`:

First, we should use the `collection` method to get a reference for a specific collection.

```js
const collectionRef = firebase.collection("users");
```

And to add a new document, we use the `add()` method with the new document's data. This method returns a promise with the new document.

```js
await firebase
  .collection("users")
  .add({ name: "Salvatore", createdAt: new Date() });
```

The promise will resolve to a document object. This object references the document created in the database, so we could use the `get()` method to get the document data, or you can use the data you already have. The ID of the document, to build the data of the new document.

```js
const userData = { name: "Salvatore", createdAt: new Date() };
const document = await firebase.collection("posts").add(user);
const newUser = { ...userData, id: document.id };
```

After that, we have to update our list of users inside a React state concatenating the new document.